- [Instructor] In order to understand the working mechanism
of the HTTP/2 protocol.
Let us first do a quick recap of HTTP/1.
We all know that it is a text-based protocol.
The messages that get transmitted
between the client and server are in human readable format.
A sample of the request and response
as shown on the slide, the request contains method,
version of the protocol, URL, headers
and a separate body in case it is a post request.
The response in turn will contain the state discord,
message, version of protocol, headers,
and then the body of data.
HTTP/1 has no pipelining.
What this means is every time you want to make a request
from the client to the server
you spawn a new TCP connection.
If you want to make multiple requests
then you end up spawning multiple TCP connections
and this is highly inefficient.
An incremental version of HTTP
that is 1.1 was introduced,
web pipelining came into existence.
Pipelining leads to persistent connections.
What is it?
It means that one TCP connection alone
can handle multiple requests.
There is no need to wait for another connection.
Requests can be sent one after the other
so that the server starts their processing.
This means that if you want to run a lot of requests
in parallel, you end up spawning multiple TCP connections.
However, note that there is a limit to the number
of TCP connections that the client wants to set up.
But even if that happens, the responses still must come in
the same order as the request sent.
This means that if the response
of a particular request is delayed, for example
the request was held up for a database connection
or some other resource
than all the other responses are blocked
and cannot be sent back to the client.
This results in a big issue
which is called head of line blocking, HOL.
But this is an unintended side effect.
In the next video we'll see,
how are these problems going to be solved
by the HTTP/2 protocol.